refactor: rename `request.validate` to `request.validateInput` (#4139)
fastify/fastify: docs/Reference/Request.md

  request.log.info('some info')
})
```
### .getValidationFunction(schema | httpPart)
<a id="getvalidationfunction"></a>

By calling this function using a provided `schema` or `httpPart`, 
it will return a `validation` function that can be used to
validate diverse inputs. It returns `undefined` if no
serialization function was found using either of the provided inputs.

```js
const validate = request
                  .getValidationFunction({
                    type: 'object', 
                    properties: { 
                      foo: { 
                        type: 'string' 
                      } 
                    } 
                  })
validate({ foo: 'bar' }) // true

// or

const validate = request

>                   .getSerializationFunction('body')

Reviewer: misprint: the serialization function

validate({ foo: 0.5 }) // false
```

> See [.compilaValidationSchema(schema, [httpStatus])](#compileserializationschema)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [.compilaValidationSchema(schema, [httpStatus])](#compilevalidationschema)
```

for more information on how to compile validation function.

### .compileValidationSchema(schema, [httpPart])
<a id="compilevalidationschema"></a>

This function will compile a validation schema and
return a function that can be used to validate data.
The function returned (a.k.a. _validation function_) is compiled

> by using the provided `SchemaControler#ValidationCompiler`.

Reviewer: Should it be a link?

Also this is cached by using a `WeakMap` for reducing compilation calls.

The optional paramater `httpPart`, if provided, is forwarded directly
the `ValidationCompiler`, so it can be used to compile the validation
function if a custom `ValidationCompiler` is provided for the route.

```js
const validate = request
                  .compileValidationSchema({
                    type: 'object', 
                    properties: { 
                      foo: { 
                        type: 'string' 
                      } 
                    } 
                  })
validate({ foo: 'bar' }) // true

// or

const validate = request

>                   .compileSerializationSchema({

Reviewer: misprint: the serialization is not involved here and it returns a string

                    type: 'object', 
                    properties: { 
                      foo: { 
                        type: 'string' 
                      } 
                    } 
                  }, 200)

> validate({ hello: 'world' }) // false

Reviewer: What about renaming it to `validateInput`? (as `serializeInput`)

We did not land this feature yet

```

> Note that you should be careful when using this function, as it will cache

Reviewer: I wonder if we should just link a blog post (I volunteer to write it) to explain this.

I think it is too technical and the user may loose the focus on the "big picture"

Author: Agree, didn’t find a way to make it less verbose. Actually I think a Blog post will explain pretty what’s about, happy to be part if I can be helpful somehow 🙂

> the compiled valiadtion functions based on the schema provided. If the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the compiled validation functions based on the schema provided. If the
```

> schemas provided is mutated or changed, the serialization functions will not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
schemas provided are mutated or changed, the validation functions will not
```

detect that the schema has been altered and for instance it will reuse the

> previously compiled serialization function, as the cache is based on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
previously compiled validation function, as the cache is based on
```

the reference of the schema (Object) previously provided.

> If there's a need to change the properties of a schema, always opt to create
> a totally new schema (object), otherwise the implementation won't benefit from
> the cache mechanism.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If there is a need to change the properties of a schema, always opt to create
a totally new schema (object), otherwise the implementation will not benefit
from the cache mechanism.
```

Reference docs are formal, so contractions should be avoided. :)

> :Using the following schema as example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the following schema as an example:
```

> :Using the following schema as an example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using the following schema as an example:
```

```js
const schema1 = {
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    foo: {
      type: 'string'
    }
  }
}
```

*Not*
```js 
const validate = request.compileValidationSchema(schema1)

// Later on...

> schema1.properties.foo.type. = 'integer'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
schema1.properties.foo.type = 'integer'
```

Author: **Note for myself**: Do not write documentation late in night 😅

const newValidate = request.compileValidationSchema(schema1)

console.log(newValidate === validate) // true
```

*Instead*
```js
const validate = request.compileValidationSchema(schema1)

// Later on...
const newSchema = Object.assign({}, schema1)
newSchema.properties.foo.type = 'integer'

const newValidate = request.compileValidationSchema(newSchema)

console.log(newValidate === validate) // false
```

### .validate(data, [schema | httpStatus], [httpStatus])
<a id="validate"></a>

> This function will validate the input based on the provided schema,
> or http part passed. If both provided, the `httpPart` parameter
> will take presedence.
> 
> If there is not a valiodation function for a given `schema`, a new validation
> function will be compiled forwarding the `httpPart` if provided.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This function will validate the input based on the provided schema
or HTTP part passed. If both are provided, the `httpPart` parameter
will take precedence.

If there is not a validation function for a given `schema` a new validation
function will be compiled, forwarding the `httpPart` if provided.
```

```js
request
  .validate({ foo: 'bar'}, {  
    type: 'object', 
    properties: { 
      foo: { 
        type: 'string' 
      } 
    } 
  }) // true

// or

request
  .validate({ foo: 'bar'}, {
    type: 'object', 
    properties: { 
      foo: { 
        type: 'string' 
      } 
    } 
  }, 'body') // true

// or

request

>   .serializeInput({ hello: 'world'}, 'query') // false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .validateInput({ hello: 'world'}, 'query') // false
```
